README.md, before:

## honk

This is a personal fork, nothing here is
stable and anything can break at any time!  
You probably want to visit the original project instead:
https://humungus.tedunangst.com/r/honk

### Features

Take control of your honks and join the federation.  
An ActivityPub server with minimal setup and support costs.  
Spend more time using the software and less time operating it.

No attention mining.  
No likes, no faves, no polls, no stars, no claps, no counts.

Purple color scheme. Custom emus. Memes too.  
Avatars automatically assigned by the NSA.

The button to submit a new honk says "it's gonna be honked".

The honk mission is to work well if it's what you want.  
This does not imply the goal is to be what you want.

### Guidelines

One honk per day, or call it an "eighth-tenth" honk.  
If your honk frequency changes, so will the number of honks.

The honk should be short, but not so short that you cannot identify it.

The honk is an animal sign of respect and should be accompanied by a  
friendly greeting or a nod.

The honk should be done from a seat and in a safe area.

It is considered rude to make noise in a place of business.

The honk may be made on public property only when the person doing  
the honk has the permission of the owner of that property.

### Build

To build honk, you will need a go compiler version 1.20 or later.

```sh
git clone https://github.com/nothub/honk.git
cd honk && make
```

Even on a fast machine, building from source can take several seconds.

### Setup

honk expects to be fronted by a TLS terminating reverse proxy.

First, create the database. The wizard will ask four questions:

```sh
./honk init
username:   # the username you want
password:   # the password (or bcrypt hash) you want
listenaddr: # tcp or unix: 127.0.0.1:31337, /var/www/honk.sock, etc.
servername: # public DNS name: honk.example.com
```

Then run honk: `./honk`

### Upgrade

```sh
old-honk backup "$(date +backup-%F)"
./honk upgrade
./honk
```

### Docker

honk is available packaged as a
[Docker image](https://hub.docker.com/r/n0thub/honk).

<details>
  <summary>Usage examples</summary>

##### persistent data volume

```sh
docker run --rm            \
  -p "127.0.0.1:8080:8080" \
  -v "${PWD}/data:/data"   \
  "n0thub/honk:latest"
```

---

##### initial database setup

The database will be initialized if not found.  
A password can be supplied in plaintext or as bcrypt hash.

```sh
hash="$(htpasswd -nBC 12 "" | tr -d ':\n')"
docker run --rm                \
  -v "${PWD}/data:/data"       \
  -e "USER=admin"              \
  -e "PASS=${hash}"            \
  -e "ADDR=honk.example.org"   \
  "n0thub/honk:latest"
```

---

##### database upgrade

A database upgrade can be executed by passing the required command to the
container.

```sh
docker run --rm              \
  -v "${PWD}/data:/data"     \
  "n0thub/honk:latest"       \
  "upgrade"
```

---

##### custom html views

```sh
docker run --rm               \
  -p "127.0.0.1:8080:8080"    \
  -v "${PWD}/data:/data"      \
  -v "${PWD}/views:/views:ro" \
  "n0thub/honk:latest"
```

---

##### custom uid & gid

```sh
docker run --rm            \
  -p "127.0.0.1:8080:8080" \
  -v "${PWD}/data:/data"   \
  -e "PUID=9001"           \
  -e "PGID=9002"           \
  "n0thub/honk:latest"
```

</details>

### Documentation

There is a [more complete incomplete manual](./docs/). This is just the README.

### Disclaimer

Do not use honk to contact emergency services.

Commit message:

add genhash cmd, rewrite interactive password input

README.md, after:

## honk

This is a personal fork, nothing here is
stable and anything can break at any time!  
You probably want to visit the original project instead:
https://humungus.tedunangst.com/r/honk

### Features

Take control of your honks and join the federation.  
An ActivityPub server with minimal setup and support costs.  
Spend more time using the software and less time operating it.

No attention mining.  
No likes, no faves, no polls, no stars, no claps, no counts.

Purple color scheme. Custom emus. Memes too.  
Avatars automatically assigned by the NSA.

The button to submit a new honk says "it's gonna be honked".

The honk mission is to work well if it's what you want.  
This does not imply the goal is to be what you want.

### Guidelines

One honk per day, or call it an "eighth-tenth" honk.  
If your honk frequency changes, so will the number of honks.

The honk should be short, but not so short that you cannot identify it.

The honk is an animal sign of respect and should be accompanied by a  
friendly greeting or a nod.

The honk should be done from a seat and in a safe area.

It is considered rude to make noise in a place of business.

The honk may be made on public property only when the person doing  
the honk has the permission of the owner of that property.

### Build

To build honk, you will need a go compiler version 1.20 or later.

```sh
git clone https://github.com/nothub/honk.git
cd honk && make
```

Even on a fast machine, building from source can take several seconds.

### Setup

honk expects to be fronted by a TLS terminating reverse proxy.

First, create the database. The wizard will ask four questions:

```sh
./honk init
username:   # the username you want
password:   # the password (or bcrypt hash) you want
listenaddr: # tcp or unix: 127.0.0.1:31337, /var/www/honk.sock, etc.
servername: # public DNS name: honk.example.com
```

Then run honk: `./honk`

### Upgrade

```sh
old-honk backup "$(date +backup-%F)"
./honk upgrade
./honk
```

### Docker

honk is available packaged as a
[Docker image](https://hub.docker.com/r/n0thub/honk).

<details>
  <summary>Usage examples</summary>

##### persistent data volume

```sh
docker run --rm            \
  -p "127.0.0.1:8080:8080" \
  -v "${PWD}/data:/data"   \
  "n0thub/honk:latest"
```

---

##### initial database setup

The database will be initialized if not found.  
A password can be supplied interactive or by flag as bcrypt hash.

```sh
hash=""
# generate crypt hash:
# hash="$(./honk genhash)"
# hash="$(htpasswd -nBC 12 "" | tr -d ':\n')"
docker run -it --rm            \
  -v "${PWD}/data:/data"       \
  "n0thub/honk:latest"         \
    init                       \
    --username "admin"         \
    --hash "${hash}"           \
    --fqdn "honk.example.org"
```

---

##### database upgrade

A database upgrade can be executed by passing the required command to the
container.

```sh
docker run --rm              \
  -v "${PWD}/data:/data"     \
  "n0thub/honk:latest"       \
  "upgrade"
```

---

##### custom html views

```sh
docker run --rm               \
  -p "127.0.0.1:8080:8080"    \
  -v "${PWD}/data:/data"      \
  -v "${PWD}/views:/views:ro" \
  "n0thub/honk:latest"
```

---

##### custom uid & gid

```sh
docker run --rm            \
  -p "127.0.0.1:8080:8080" \
  -v "${PWD}/data:/data"   \
  -e "PUID=9001"           \
  -e "PGID=9002"           \
  "n0thub/honk:latest"
```

</details>

### Documentation

There is a [more complete incomplete manual](./docs/). This is just the README.

### Disclaimer

Do not use honk to contact emergency services.
